- Policy on users' display names -

1. You may use any name that represents you or an entity you are
authorized to represent.

We prefer that you use a name that you would normally introduce
yourself as at a party to a friend of a friend — i.e. your display
name is what someone could actually address you as in person.

You can use your legal name, or it could be a nickname, handle, pseudonym, etc.

You may use a common name that happens to be also used by someone
else, so long as does not appear to us to be an attempt at
impersonating the other person.


2. Display names may be composed of up to _##_ UTF-8 characters, plus
numbers. Each name part should be in a single Unicode character set,
but you can use multiple character sets in the name overall (e.g. for
a mixed English / Chinese name).

If you use non-Roman characters (e.g. Chinese or Arabic), we'll ask
you for a Romanized version also, so that international users can
easily type your name and understand approximately how to pronounce
it.

Simply decorative symbols that aren't part of the name itself (e.g. ★,
~~~, !, xxx, etc.) are not allowed.

[Technical note: the name should be entered as a single text field.
http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-personal-names]


3. Impersonation dispute:

If someone claims that you are using a name that does not belong to
you and shows us proof that the name you are using is well established
elsewhere, we will ask you for some sort of proof that either it is
your legal name, or that you control a significant presence elsewhere
under that name.

What proof is needed will depend on the exact circumstances, including
things like your posting history. Please send the best you have and
we'll ask if we have further questions.

Impersonation is the only reason we will suspend your profile based on
your name alone. Please note, however, that your name may contribute
to an overall claim of abuse (e.g. if your name includes an offensive
term and your behavior shows that you are harassing other users); this
however is covered by our [link]abuse policy[/link].

(this policy written by Sai)
