Note - this document is a placeholder for the Transparency Rule under development by MIT Human Dynamics Lab collaborator Ray Campbell.  

This project is part of the openPDS research initiative described at the project site: http://openpds.media.mit.edu/#rules and more information about this branch of the project is available at the research blog site: http://ecitizen.tv or the research site: http://ecitizen.mit.edu 

First Draft as posted on www.rac3.com/blog (3/12/13)

The purpose of the Transparency Rule is to promote transparency, not to limit the circumstances or ways in which an individual’s protected personal information (PPI) may be used or disclosed by Covered Entities.
A Covered Entity must disclose, upon the request of an individual, such PPI and PPI Metadata that relates to the individual as the FTC shall prescribe by regulation.  The FTC shall promulgate regulations specifying the types of PPI, and where appropriate specific PPI data elements, that Covered Entities must provide to individuals upon request.  The FTC shall also specify PPI Metadata, relating to the Covered Entity’s acquisition, use, transfer, and disposition of PPI, that Covered Entities must be provided to individuals upon request.  The FTC shall also establish the methods by which individuals must request and receive PPI and PPI Metadata from Covered Entities, as well as standards to automate such exchanges.  The FTC shall establish de-identification standards that will exempt information from the Transparency Rule.
Individuals have a right to an accounting of the disclosures, sales, and other transfers of PPI by a Covered Entity. The maximum disclosure accounting period is the six years immediately preceding the accounting request, except a Covered Entity is not obligated to account for any disclosure made before its Transparency Rule compliance date.
The Transparency Rule does not otherwise restrict the use of PPI.  A Covered Entity may use and disclose PPI as allowed by law, and as required by law (including by statute, regulation, or court orders).  The Transparency Rule does not give individuals the right to control or restrict the use of PPI or to require that Covered Entities amend PPI when the individual believes the information is inaccurate or incomplete.
In general, State laws that are contrary to the Transparency Rule are preempted by the federal requirements if it would be impossible for a Covered Entity to comply with both the State and federal requirements.  The Transparency Rule does not preempt State laws that provide greater privacy protections or privacy rights with respect to protected personal information.
The FTC will administer and enforce the Transparency Rule.  The FTC will seek the cooperation of Covered Entities and may provide technical assistance to help them comply voluntarily with the Transparency Rule.  Covered Entities that fail to comply voluntarily with the standards may be subject to civil penalties if the Covered Entity knew or should have known of the failure to comply, or if the Covered Entity’s failure to comply was due to willful neglect.

