Draft Individual Identity and Names Policy (NymPolicy)
Version 0.2; October 12, 2013

1. The System Provider offering this services regards you, the Account Holder using this service, as the authoritative source of information regarding the name or names you designate to identify yourself, subject to the following limitations:
a) Identity services of Google Business Apps enable  individual accounts and as such is subject to technical constraints such certain technical limites will apply and may change from time to time based upon the upstream service offerings of Google, including limits upon total number of characters permitted for the name fields associated with the profiles and accounts provided;
b) Names used for the purpose of commiting or aiding the comission of fraud, crime, civil liberties violations or other violations of law are prohibited.
c) Action or failure to act that creates liability or other risk to the System Provider, account holders, other persons or property, whether legal, operational, market, technical, transactional, reputational or other risks as determined by the System Provider may result in indefinite suspension or termination of an account.
d) Any person or persons may have and use as many accounts and names as they wish, provided there are sufficient operational and technical resources available, including the number of accounts available and the number or type of fields related to the account profile, other attribute or identifiers available and offered for use.


2. The System Provider regards the right of human beings to anonymity and psuydonymity as important identity-related civic liberties and as such the System Provider seeks to promote and protect the continued access to and free use of these states of identity unless clear and compelling circumstances require or strongly indicate otherwise. 
a) In order to assist the System Provider in defending identity-related civil liberties, account holders are obligated to report as soon as practiable any software, site, service or system that unduly prohibits, prevents or penalizes the account holder for use of a psudonym comprising the name associated with an account on this system.
b) In order to assist the System Provider in supporting identity-related civil liberties, account holders are strongly encouraged to nominate any software, site, service or system that represents good practices, beneficial functions or otherwise exhibits business, legal and/or technical excellence or thought leadership related to the use, acceptance or provision of psudonyms.
c) In order to assist the System Provider in promoting and protecting identity-related civil liberties, account holder are strongly encouraged to provide feedback on the service and to participate in research studies, surveys, usability testing, field studies and other research conducted by this service.

Documentation:
See: https://github.com/HumanDynamics/FIPS/wiki/NymPolicy-Documentation

Attribution:
The current author of this policy is Dazza Greenwood, JD.  
This draft was inspired by and may never have been created without the initial nym policy written by Sai.
